♪ [music] ♪
Let's click on our map page.
And, of course,
we're going to get a 404. So let's
make a quick route for it,
then we'll make a PUG file, then we'll get
into actually creating our JavaScript.
So we'll go to index.js, we'll go to the
bottom here, and we will create a route.
I'm going to do it above our API stuff.
Say "router.get". And when that happens,
we are going to use our storeController
and we're going to go to the mapPage.
Good. Now open up our storeController.js
and we'll make our mapPage method here.
And it's going to res.render out map.
And the title is going to be Map.
Good. And then finally we will go into our
views folder and create a map.pug file.
And we got our map page showing up. Good.
So on this page we need just very minimal
markup because most of the stuff is going
to be happening in our maps JavaScript.
So we need an inner div inside of here.
Inside of that we'll have our h2.
We'll have a map div with a class of .map
div. We'll have an .autocomplete.
Inside of that we're going to have an
input with a class of autocomplete__input.
It's going to have a type of text.
Placeholder of "Search for Anything."
And then name of geolocate, that's the
most important part because that's how
we're going to actually select our input.
Then as a sibling to autocomplete,
we need a div with an ID of map, and
inside of that just put a paragraph tag
"Loading Map..." Good, so that's all of
the PUG file we need to write,
so we can close that down. And we can also
close down our controller.
What we need to now do is write the
client-side JavaScript. So we're going to
go into our public folder, into our
modules, and we're going to make a map.js
file. Then in here we're going to import
axios, which is a nice library for
fetching AJAX again. And we're going to
make a function called loadPlaces that
takes in a map, a lat, and a long. And
we're going to default the lat to being
43.2. And the long is going to be
defaulted to -79.8. And you could
automatically detect that
from the user using
navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition.
And I have a tutorial on how to do that on
javascript30.com. So if you are interested
on how to make that dynamic rather than
fall back to a default here, go and take
the day... Here we go,
Geolocation, Hardware Access. Go and take
day 21 of JavaScript 30 and you'll know
exactly how to do that. So remove that
there. Then we also need another function
from this loadPlaces called makeMap.
Function makeMap. It takes the name
mapDiv. And then finally from that we are
going to export default makeMap.
Good. So we import axios, we have a
function called loadPlaces,
we have a function called makeMap, and
then we export just the makeMap.
Let's open up our delicious-app.js and
import the makeMap function.
And we'll go ahead and use it, makeMap,
and we're going to use the bling.js to
give it an ID of map. All right, so we
have everything up and running.
If we just go into this makeMap, we're
going to console.log the mapDiv.
Go in here and see what we got. Oh,
"Cannot find module". What did I do?
Come on now. There we go. There we go, we
have our mapDiv showing up on this page.
Now if I were to go to my home page, it
will say "null". Why? Because it doesn't
actually find anything on that page. So we
can go into our makeMap and say,
"If there is no mapDiv, return." Right?
And then that function will not run on
that specific page. Good. So if we look at
our layout.js and go to the bottom.
We've already looked at this a couple
times, but let's look at it again.
I have already loaded in the Google Maps
JavaScript library for us,
so we don't need to load any of that in.
We can actually just start to go ahead and
make our map. So we'll go back to our map
page here and we're going to just get a
map on the page, and then worry about how
do we load in the actual data.
So in order to do that we need some map
options, some I'm going to put this above
here. Say "const mapOptions =", and you
give it an object. It needs a center.
Again, it's going to have a lat that is
equal to 43.2. And an L-N-G which is -79.8
And we're going to set a zoom level
of two, and that's just how far in should
it be zoomed in. If you want to look at
all the different options,
you can take a quick look at the docs for
Google Maps. Then we'll go in here and
we'll actually make our map. So a little
comment "make our map."
Then we're going to store it in a variable
because we're going to need reference to
that map fairly often. So "const map = new
google.maps. Map," capital M-A-P.
And then you pass it two things. First,
where should it go, mapDiv.
Remember, we passed in this mapDiv, which
is a div with the ID of map.
And then the second thing that we're
passing in is an object of options,
mapOptions. Good. I think now if we
refresh our actual page we should see a
map showing up. There we go, that's a nice
little map showing up.
Zoom two, probably that's not a good idea,
maybe eight. What does eight give us?
There we go, that's a little bit better
zoomed in. But we have our map up and
running. Next thing that we need to do is
to hook up this geolocation here.
Right? Because we did this on the other
page, but this is a different one
altogether. So what we'll do is we'll grab
that input. We'll say "const input,"
and we'll quickly get that right off the
page with our bling.js.
Actually, we don't have our bling.js.
Remember this one? The dollar sign is just
a nice shortcut to document.querySelector.
So what you can do is import dollar sign
from bling. And then we can use it. So we
want to get something that has a name of
geolocate. Let's just console.log the
input to make sure that we know what we're
dealing with and that our selectors are
working fine. So if I refresh,
I should see actual input. Good. That's
this input right here,
geolocate. And then we're going to make it
autocomplete just like we did before.
So we say "const autocomplete = new
google.maps.places. Autocomplete."
And you pass it the actual input that
you're looking for. Good.
Now if I give that a save, we should see a
bunch of drop-down.
There we go. Arizona, Australia. And I'll
hit enter. It doesn't do anything yet,
but we have that autocomplete working.
We'll come back to that once we have this
map up and running. Now we're going to go
over to this loadPlaces here because once
we actually have our map, we are going to
run loadPlaces and we're going to pass it
our map. And then when somebody changes
the autocomplete, we are also going to run
loadPlaces. But let's not get too excited
now, let's work on this part right here.
So when the page loads, we are going to
run makeMap, and that will create a map on
the page. And when the page map is done
being created, we will run this loadPlaces
function, which asks for that specific
map, as well as needs a specific lat and
long. And that's going to hit our endpoint
and that's how we're going to search
inside of it. So what we do here is we are
going to say "axios.get."
And we're going to use our API with
backticks. "/api/stores/near."
And we need to pass it a lat property,
which is just going to be our lat that
gets passed into the function. And we need
to pass it a long property,
which is going to be our long that was
passed into the function.
Then we have a response from the...
Actually, I think I used R-E-S in the
other one. Let's keep it consistent, Wes.
And from that we say "const places =
response.data." And let's just console.log
the places. So page loads.
Oh, "Response is not defined." Because
it's res. There we go. On page load what
happens? We make a map, we run loadPlaces,
loadPlaces will take the default of this
lat and long, and we open that up. And
because I have a whole bunch of places in
Hamilton, you'll see that this is the data
that's coming back from our API,
right? We're hitting our own API and
bringing back the data. Good.
I'm really happy with that. Now what we do
that we have this data is we need to first
check if there are any places. So we'll
say, "If there are no places.length,
then..." And in this case you can make
some sort of interface.
We'll cheap out and just say "alert'no
places found!'." But what you could do is
you could pop a little warning message on
the top here, whatever it is that you like
to do, and then it we'll return from this
function because there's nothing else for
us to actually do. Then what we want to do
is make a whole bunch of markers.
So we'll say "const markers =." Markers
are those little red pins that you see on
maps all over the place. We'll take our
places array and we'll map over each one
of those places and return a marker from
each of them. So we have our place,
and then we need to grab the lat and the
long. Const placeLng and placeLat.
Notice how we're doing it long, lat here.
Why? Because the data that comes back from
our database is long, lat, not lat, long.
And place.location.coordinates.
And why is that? Well, place is going to
be one of these Object. .location,
that's going to be a sub-object on that
place. And then inside of that we're going
to have coordinates, which itself is an
array. The first thing being the long,
the second thing being the lat. So what
we're doing is we're using destructuring,
array destructuring, here saying, "Make a
variable called placeLng out of the first
thing and make a variable called placeLat
out of the second thing." And we could
just console.log placeLng and placeLat and
watch this. Whoa. Well,
that's good, we get our lat and our long,
or our long and our lat,
for every single place that we have. So
good, we know that this loop is actually
starting to work. Then we need to make a
position object for Google Maps.
So we'll say "const position =". Not
"relative", it's equal to an object,
where the lat is the placeLat and the long
is the placeLng. Good.
Then we can make our actual marker. So
we'll say "const marker = new google.maps.
Marker." And that will take an object,
which needs a couple things.
The map is going to be our mapDiv, so we
can just do that. And position is going to
be our position. Again, if you have
map-map, position-position,
we only need to do it once. And we can
just bring those onto their own line just
to keep ourself sane. So we made a marker
here, and then what we need to do is also
attach the place data to that marker.
Because what is the place?
The place is the object with all the data
from our API, and I want to attach that
data to the marker. Because when somebody
clicks the marker, we need some way to
reference that actual place data. So we'll
say marker.place is equal to our place
variable, which is going to be this.
Right? That's the individual place that
we're going to store on the marker so we
have access to it. And then finally,
finally, finally we are going to return
the actual marker from that.
So if I were to console.log the markers,
you'll see that I get a couple things
here. Awesome. First, the markers actually
show up on our map here.
And why is that? Well, because we have
created all of these markers.
And we said put it on our map, which is
this map on our page. And put it at this
position, which is this object that we
just made. And then we return those
markers into an array. And you can see
here that we have a huge array of possible
markers. And there's a whole bunch of
information that we can use for handling
clicks and whatnot, but what's most
important is that each of these markers
has a place object. And if you open that
up, you'll see that this is just the
object that actually came from our API.
See? Donut Monster has a location,
has a slug, has a name, has an ID. So all
of that information that we need about the
place is specifically there. So good. We
don't need to console.log the markers just
yet. But there is one problem that we're
having here, and that is this zoom level.
I don't know, I could say maybe zoom two
here, and then refresh.
Although that's way zoomed out. So maybe
like, what, is zoom 13,
I think, as high as you can go? That's way
too zoomed in and it didn't actually
center it. So rather than trying to monkey
around and guess with the zoom level,
what we can do is we can actually use
something call bounds which will detect,
"Okay, this is where all the markers are.
Let's just zoom in so that all of the
markers fit, but we are zoomed in as far
as we can possibly go." So what we're
going to do is right above creating our
markers we're going to create a bounds.
And then I'll show you how that works.
We'll say "const bounds = new google.maps.
LatLngBounds". And bounds is something
that we're going to take and extend for
every single marker. Then when we loop
over each of these places,
we're also going to extend our bounds so
that it will fit each of these markers.
So right before we make our marker we're
going to go here and we're going to say
"bounds.extend" and we're going to pass it
our position object.
So it's going to say, "Hey." All of a
sudden we start with just a pinpoint.
And then it says, "Okay, this marker right
here is on Wellington Street,
so make sure that we extend our bounds to
include that." And then it is a little bit
bigger, the bounds. And then it says, "Oh,
now there's one over here near Gibson,
let's extend our bounds to be at least
that big." And then it finds another one
to the left here and says, "Oh, there's
one over here," and it will extend the
bounds. And what that will do is it will,
at the end of the day once it loops
through every single marker, it will give
us a perfect square,
or a perfect rectangle, around all of the
markers. And then we can then use that to
zoom in or zoom out our map so that
everything fits perfectly.
So let's just double-check that everything
is working. Give it a refresh.
"gogole," it's "google.maps.
LatLngBounds". Refresh. Everything is
showing up. So we have this bounds value
right here. What we want to do is after we
loop over all of our markers, we want to
then zoom the map to fit all the markers
perfectly. So we'll take our map and we'll
call .setCenter on it.
And where are we going to set the center?
Well, we take our bounds and we call
getCenter from it. And the bounds, again,
is like a circle or a square around all of
our pins and it will tell us where the
actual center of it is.
Then I want to refresh. You'll see that on
page load it moves a little bit.
And that's because as soon as these
markers are loaded, it will perfectly
center those markers in the middle of the
map. Now that's not good enough because
I'm zoomed way out here. Ideally I would
be zoomed in something like this,
that would show me where they all are. So
that's what we do, we say "map.fitBounds"
and you just pass it our actual bounds
here. Now when we refresh,
hey, hey, look. You see how it was zoomed
out at first? And then immediately once
the data is loaded, it will zoom ourselves
on in to make sure that everything has
been fit properly. Good, so we got a
couple of other pieces here with our map,
we got everything showing. But when I
click on these, there's no actual data
that's showing up. And when you have a
pop-up in Google Maps, that's something
called an info window. Google Maps is all
about making just different pieces of the
map. Like we have our autocomplete, we
have our markers, we have our map,
and now we're going to make a fourth,
fifth thing called an info window.
So let's go ahead and make one info window
variable. We'll put it right below our
bounds here so we can keep those things
together. So "const infoWindow =,"
guess what, "new google.maps. InfoWindow."
We don't need to pass any options to our
info window just yet because those options
will be coming once we actually want to
click on them. Good. Now let's go right
down below these markers,
we have this array of markers. And now
what I want to do is I want to loop over
each of those markers and attach an event
listener so that when somebody clicks on
one of these markers, we can actually show
that info window. So we'll go right here
and we'll say, "When someone clicks on a
marker, show the details of that place."
So we'll take our markers array and we
will loop over each one with .forEach,
we'll have each marker. And what we're
going to do is we're going to take that
marker and we're going to call
addListener. Again, addListener is the
Google Maps equivalent of
addEventListener. We're going to listen
for a click. And when that happens, we're
going to run a function,
proper function here. Why? Because if you
console.log this when you click on a
marker, let's see what we're working with
here. So let me click on a marker.
This is the actual marker itself and
there's all kinds of information about
that marker, like what map it is on, what
position, if it's visible or not,
if it's clickable. But what we're
concerned with here is this called place.
If you open up place, look at it.
"Counter-server joint with an
ever-changing selection of elevated soups
and burgers," right?
And then you click on another one and it's
going to tell us that this .place is equal
to "High end French restaurant on the
hippest street in town." Okay,
cool. So we can get the place with this
.place, but we need to create some
information, we need to create some HTML
so we can actually set the info window on
there. So let's try it with this right
now. We'll say "infoWindow.setContent".
And let's just say "this.place.name." And
then we'll say "infoWindow.open,"
and you tell it where do I want it to
open. Well, you want to open it on the
map. Right? Because you could have
multiple maps on your page and you could
have one info window going from map to map
to map. In our case we just will want to
put it on our single map. And then where
do we want it to go? Well,
you can just pass it a marker, which is
either "this" or "marker."
Right? Because if you pass it "this," it's
going to know, "Oh,
I should pop up this little info window on
top of this, on top of the marker." You'll
see how that works. Sour on King, The
French. You see that they automatically
close themselves because there's only one
info window. And if you ask the info
window to open somewhere else, it's smart
enough to know to close the other one.
So that's really nice, but we can go a
little bit further and create some HTML
for each of those. So we'll say "const
html =," backticks. And inside of that
we'll have a .popup div with a link to the
store, "/$."
Inside of that we'll give ourselves an
image tag which will go to uploads,
"/$." The
alt should be "$."
Right? And then finally we have a
paragraph tag underneath it which is
"$ - ." And then we can
take the "$"
because that will tell us actually where
it is. So we have this HTML that we just
created, now we can take that variable and
put it into our setContent.
What's cool about this is that you can
make any HTML here, and then you can style
it any which way you want with just your
regular CSS because it's not in an iframe
or anything like that, it's actually part
of your page. So refresh this sucker.
Now when I click on it, I get the picture,
I get the name, I get the address,
and I'm able to click through to the
actual store page. Good. One last piece.
Or you can bask in how amazing this is. So
take a second to take it all in and read
through this. But the last piece is when I
type in, let's say I was zoomed somewhere
totally different, and then I type in
"Hamilton". What should happen is we
should get the lat, long of this, and then
we should try loadPlaces for the lat and
long that the person has typed in. Right?
Because this is not showing every store,
this is just showing us the 10 closest
within 10 kilometers of our lat and our
long. So we can go back down to this
makeMap function where we created our
autocomplete and we can listen for when
that autocomplete changes itself.
So say "autocomplete," and we will add a
listener. And the listener is called
place_changed. You remember this from the
ad page, we've done it.
And when that happens we can run a quick
little arrow function here,
don't need a full function because we
don't need "this." And we'll say "const
place = autocomplete.getPlace."
Console.log the place just to make sure
we're not doing anything wrong. So we'll
type in "Hamilton." And you see that
console.log, you get all the information
about this place that you did.
So if I were to say "Paris," again we're
going to get all the information about
Paris. Oh, I actually have to select one
of them, otherwise it just tells me
"Paris." There go. There's the information
about it. You get the point,
right? So we have this place here. And all
we really need to do now is call our
function, loadPlaces, and we pass it our
map, we pass it our lat.
So place.geometry.location.lat. And then
just take that sucker and change it out
with "lng." Okay, so we only have places
in Hamilton right now,
so the way to test this is you can move
yourself away somewhere where it doesn't
have any places. And then we will search
for "Hamilton". And then it will go to our
API, come back. You can tell that it's
actually working if you go to your network
tab and you were to look at XHR, and then
make the actual call yourself.
And the request should show up in here.
There we go, near lat,
long. You can see that the data actually
comes back. If I were to search for
"Paris," somewhere where I do not have any
places, "Paris," it tells us "no places
found" because that's all of the error
handling we've introduced here.
Right? But if I were then to log in and
add a place in Paris, let's try it.
Log in, let's add a new one. I was in
Paris once, Au Père Louis.
There we go, that's where I want it. We'll
call it Au Père Louis,
"Great place for snails." We'll upload a
quick photo. Go to save.
There. So we added a place in Paris. Now
if I were to go to our map and search for
"Paris," then it will find only one place
and it will show us Au Père Louis.
I can open it up, I see a picture of it.
Oh, one weird thing, that's not our actual
photo. We click through to it, it should
be bread but it's showing us this.
So what's wrong with our HTML that we did?
"this.place," does this place not have a
photo? The way we can tell, console.log
this.place. Check it out,
search for "Paris." Click on it and we
look it up. Description,
location, name, slug. Oh, you know what we
didn't do is our API is not returning a
photo. Right? Because we didn't ask for
it. So if we go into our storeController,
go down to where we made this. Remember we
asked for the slug,
the name, description, and location, and
then the photo. Watch this.
Refresh. Then we search for "Paris."
Better see some bread. There we go,
then the actual bread is showing up. So
our fallback was kicking in because we did
not explicitly ask for the photo. So that
is our Google Maps up and running,
it's kind of a cool way to use
an API on your own website.
♪ [music] ♪